# Project Judging Criteria

- Judging will be based on the criteria set forth in this rulebook. Projects will be judged competitively against the other projects entered in that particular classification number. The primary goal for judges is to identify the top 5 projects in a classification number. Until such time as more specific rubrics are development, judging will be based on level of workmanship, the quality of the project, and the mastery of skills present in the project compared to other entries in that classification. Entries that are similar may be grouped together to allow judges with a particular interest or expertise to locate these entries in a timely fashion.
- The most qualified judges available will be responsible for judging. To avoid a conflict of interest, Texas TSA judges cannot judge areas directly related to their school. The awards and decisions of the Judging/Oversight Committee are final.
- Only those individuals authorized by the Contest Director are allowed in the display area after judging begins. Violation of the display or competitive event competition may result in forfeiture of awards by the school, student, chapter, or entry involved or other action determined by the Rulebook Committee.
- The Oversight Committee may review the project exhibit and provide additional awards to items that may have been overlooked, misplaced, miss-classified or unforeseen conditions. The committee may provide additional awards, but only those that have been previously approved by the Texas TSA Board of Directors. Any changes made by the oversight committee, the morning after judging will not affect point totals for school awards. The Oversight Committee shall consist of individuals appointed by the Contest Director.
- To be considered for the Best in State (BIS) patch, the individual entries must be awarded the first place award for their classification. BIS patches are not automatically given but must be purchased at the designated time.
- Documentation must be computer generated on the required forms. Sketches are allowed on otherwise computer generated forms. Documentation is required for all entries. Deductions can only be applied for lack of content, quality of writing, neatness, completeness of drawings, etc. unless otherwise noted.
- Judges should read the introduction section for each category to determine the specific documentation requirements for the projects in that area.
- Judges, at their discretion, may refuse to award a project or entry a ribbon if it is deemed to be of inadequate quality. To ensure that the project was judged and not simply skipped over, the judge will mark the project as **judged**.
- High school advisors cannot be used to judge high school projects and the same will criteria will hold true for middle school advisors. Only with the permission of the Contest Director, will Event Coordinators be allowed to violate this rule.
- The same entry cannot be used in multiple classifications. Further clarification will be provided under each specific section.
